Well, let me talk a minute about the book talk. I say
in my book that there are any number of ways of
giving a book talk. And if you want to test how
successful your method is, see how many people
came in to ask for the book after you talked about
it. That's the test. It wasn't, were you Helen
Hayes or Catherine Cornell, but how many people
came in to get the book. I have the theory that you
ought to write The book talked down,
double-spaced. Cut it first. Pick out an incident
in a book that you're crazy about. Don't talk about
it if you don't like it. If you're just mad about the
book, you pick out one little incident in that
book, preferably not at the end, that tells well.
For instance, in The Count of Monte Cristo, early
in the book, nobody in high school much is reading
The Count of Monte Cristo, but years ago they did.
Maybe in junior high, though. But in that first
chapter, where he gets put in the Chateau Deep, and
digs into this, here's this fella digging and
tries to dig to him and finds out it's an old priest
who's been digging for three years and just dug
into another cell when he thought he was at the
wall. Then the two men work together, and to tell it
quickly, he goes in one more and finds the priest
dead. And he gets out of the chateau deep by taking
the place of the dead man. He put the dead man's body
in his cell with his face to the wall and the old cap
on his head, and he gets in the shroud. And they
throw him in the ocean, and just as he's about to
die, he reaches down and cuts his rope and comes to
the surface. Well, that is a perfect example of a
part of a book that has an ending, a good
introduction, and moves along. But take the scene
anywhere, as I say, preferably not at the end. But
it has to carry you along and have a satisfactory
little ending to it. And in this, you're trying to
give the reader a slice of the pie so good that he
will want to eat the whole pie. You're trying to
sell him the pie by telling him what it's like. So
you cut this little scene and give it, and then type
it. And when you type it, it should come out about
four and a half pages double spaced. That's a good
average length of a book, though. About four and a
half pages double spaced. My reason for typing it
is this. You've got it through time and eternity.
And next year, when the new ninth grade comes in,
you've got a book talk ready. Ten, ten minutes.
Just read it over. You don't have to read the book
again because you have read it. And this book talk
will recall it to you. And you'll know exactly what
you want to say. And you don't have to do anything
but stare around in the old sermon bow, bring this
up and read it and drink. And if you write all your
talks out like this, in a short while you'll have 50
talks in two or three years. You can fit any
situation and do it with a few moments notice. You
can sit down at the first of the year and read your
whole collection over in an hour or an hour and a
half. And then you're ready for the school year. Do
you tie that little four and a half pages in with the
plot of the book? I take it, I tell enough. about
what has happened that they can follow this scene.
Don't tell the whole story. Don't wear them out.
Just be able to follow these characters through
this scene. Now I can give you, and I say that most
people do not talk well, speak well
extemporaneously. They say, well, he was gone
down this road in the country. Oh, but I forgot to
tell you that his grandfather had been here. Well,
a good father. Now, this is the way a lot of people
speak except for Anderson. If you take the words of
the author, he was so good he got published. As real
smooth And if you learn to say it so it doesn't sound
memorized, as I said this morning, say, uh, and
the, and don't hit them as your pronouns, and say,
now how would this person have said this? And say it
over in your mind, and you say it like he did. Nobody
knows it's memorized. And it makes such a smooth
performance. I'm going to do it, but it's
perfectly possible to do this and not sound
memorized. You're just that, like you tell
stories to children. When children's librarians
tell stories, they memorize it. But it doesn't
sound memorized. You become this person, and you
disappear. The object is to be so good that nobody
sees you. They just see Franzenoah looking at the
flowers, and they don't see you. So that any
gesture, any funny stuff that you do, any loud
noise, calls attention to you, and that's the
reason it's wrong. Because you got off the stage.
And just let this story live. Here's
the
way I'm used to doing it. The Pratt Library has
printed a thing called Speaking of Books. And
they've got 290 books listed under such titles as
If You Want to Read a Movie. how to impress your
teacher geared to a man's taste for the female of
the species, the lipstick to keep you up at night so
laugh a little before today for the nonconformist
which is printed upside down to keep you calm about
private and public people out of this world now
There are about 16 young adult workers, so that is
290 book talks that they've got ready. They go in
couples. And when they go in to give the book talks,
each child is given one of these. He finds it on the
seat. And you say, that we're from Grant Library.
We've come to talk to you about just enjoying
books. Now, you have a list on the seat of your
chair. Pick it up and get your pencil. Now, you may
not want to use the pencil, which is just not weird.
For the time this period's over, I think you're
going to want to read some of these books. And you
check the ones we talk about that sound
interesting. If they don't sound interesting,
don't check them. Use your list. But we'd like to
work out with you a little game called Stump the
Experts. Now, we haven't read all these books, but
we've read a lot of them. And they're numbered.
Let's look at the list. Here's
one called Geared to a Man's Taste. And number 95 is
Williams the Wooden Horse. And in this, this is a
story of some prisoners of war who were English who
were in this German prison from which nobody can
escape possibly. and how they tried to dig a tunnel
under a barbed wire fence with police dogs and the
guards and all the other things to escape through
that tunnel. And you wouldn't believe what they
did. How they'd dig that dirt and hide it in, they'd
cut off the pants legs in summer and make bags and to
conceal the dirt, put it in the bags made of the
bottoms of the trousers, bring it in, and dispose
of it under the house or down the john or something
like that to make room to keep digging this tunnel.
And how one day it fell in. Well, I'm not going to
tell you about it, but that is this one. Now, here's
one called... to keep you up at night, and here's
one of Hitchcock's stories that you like, you've
seen him on television, but I'll pick out, calling
attention to the love story here, for the girl
says, tell just a bit about a love story. Now say,
look at the section you like, and call out a number,
and see if you can stop us. And if we find something
we haven't read, we say, well, you got me. I've read
reviews of it, but I haven't actually read it, I'll
tell you something about it. But going through it
this way, then they all want to get in on that. And
this makes them look at the list. And they suddenly
realize it's a real good list. Then you say, but I
want to stop and talk about number 13, Wuthering
Heights. Then go back and do this. So that in one
period, we talk for a period, and do a class or two
classes together in the library. Then you set
these kids out with about 20 books under the belts.
many of which they want to read and you gave two or
three book talks during that period but you talked
about the others in these thumbnail sketches so
that they went out of there without now let me tell
you you don't have to go into it on this elaborate
scale if you have only ten books that you're going
to consider just make ten mimeograph a list of ten
books but number them they don't know the alphabet
but many can count
laughter And if you want to get them to come and
quickly with it, they can call out the numbers, you
see, and everybody can do this. But you couldn't do
it without that. But if you're going into the room
and you know only ten books, write them down, get
them down on the typewriter, mimeograph, give
everybody the list. Then he's got a list of ten
books to come and read with you, you see. But at his
first, two or three book talks, with a lot of
thumbnail sketches. So they go out with a lot of
books to read. And if you're in a school library,
put the books you're going to talk about up on the
desk if you can. And if you've got multiple copies
and you think they're going to read, do this. And
stop possibly 10 minutes before the period's up
and let them check them out. It's smart to let them
check them out while the iron is hot. If you say come
in at 4 o'clock and get the books, they possibly
won't get there. But if you're willing to stop and
not only check books out, if you've got a student
aide or two there that can check them out, you get
back in the stacks substituting for the ones that
you can't supply so that you send everybody
possible out of there with a book to read. Any other
questions on this? And in the address, if you want
to look at the Speaking of Books list, it doesn't
have to be this big.
Let me see
if I can picture find a smaller one.
Here's one with the Charlie Brown. sequence on it
about books. It's funny. And the kids can open it up
like this, you see, and it still has... Now, I don't
like an unannotated list as a rule because the kids
can't have one. But in this case, since you are
talking about the books, you couldn't possibly
have an annotated list of 290 books. But you can
list them like this for this talk. And ordinarily,
I would annotate them, but you don't have to do this
since you're there and talking about them. And as
she says, Dallas can give you a lot of good material
on this, as well as Grant. Anyone else?
That you think they can read. Don't give them
money. You know they can't read. Unless... You
have a very accelerated college-going class, and
you say, I don't know whether this is too difficult
or not, but I'm going to try it because I've
understood that you can read very difficult
books. If you find it boring, I can stop and do
something else. And then they'll try awfully hard
to get it, don't you know? Anxious for quiet...
I
said,
I need you. I almost had to speak to you. But it's
over. It's over. It's over. I'm with my men. Come
on. Come on, come on. Can I wake up some morning?
And
did you ever give up the rise of discipline that is a
month-fading shadow? Out on a new horizon, do you
miss him? Emotions of a distant heroine? And if the
secret that carries you on here was that my heart of
metal? No, it didn't serve him. It
was not part of you. It's only me. This is something
I'm not sure of. From my dreams, the next to wonder,
I taste the pride of a civilized love.
Thank
you. Thank
you. Don't
be concerned, it will not harm you. It's only you
who's doing something I'm not sure of. Cause my
dream is one day, I need to rise to the world of love.
I need to rise to the world of love. Thank
you.
I
just want to say goodbye through my heart. Look
into my eyes. And maybe I will understand. How long
I've got your hand. You
see,
I
had thought that you might love me. So you thought
you'd
see me. of
mountains and of hearts so full of love and the
dreams that you should share.
And so I
know
a breeze before you go.
Take my hand for water. Explain it to me once again.
Just the sake
of my broken
heart. Thank
you. Thank you.
Well,
I'm a little king on the hill, where I saw the cow and
her ewes. Well, I'm a little king on the hill where I
saw the cow and her ewes. I'll
chill my booze if you fill up my jug. That's what
I'll do. I'll chill my booze if you fill up my jug.
That's what I'll do. I
hear you sing in the wild. I can hear you through the
wild night. And the birds just call my name. It's
still on the line. I know I need a strong vacation,
but it don't look like things. And
if there's so much that sounds off, I'll never
stand to stay. And I need you more than I want you.
And I want you more than I need. And the woods just
fall away. It's still.
And
I need you, Lord, won't you And
I want you for all my life. And the witch is all I
want. It's still all I want.
The
world
is scattered all around us here. The puzzles that
we have found and explored. Still has a sign just
walking aboard. And here we stand. In hot blood's
hand. We're playing round Susie. If
I don't stay around. If I don't
stay around.
It's
a world of time of tunes and prophecy. Still you're
not content with something about
me. But what very well I'll give you time. Where's
the playground sushi? I just gotta let you go and
play around. Where's the playground sushi? If I
don't stay around. If
I don't stay around. Where's the playground
sushi? You're going to wonder where I'm at. ¶¶
¶¶
¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶
Thank
you. I'm
gonna run, I'll have some fun, I know, just me and
you, I'm not alone anymore. Come on, I can say, this
is my new game, baby. Come on, yes, I know, I know, I
can say, I'm gonna want you my life, my life, come on
and be with me. Yeah. Thank
you.
I've
felt that love once in my life, and I'll never, ever
forget it. I've never had anybody love me before.
For
once, I have someone I owe to me. I'm not lonely
anymore. For once, I say, this is mine. You can take
it. Now that I know, and I know I can take it. For
once, I have someone I owe to me. She'll
be running
She'll find a load of tape On the floor
© BF-WATCH TV 2021
She'll
be working. She brought me some love. And give me a
voice. To see her, to see her, that holy voice.
Oh,
good Lord, that's all for the time I've been
before. Oh, good Lord. She'll
be sleeping. She'll turn softly and call my name
out loud. Oh, and she'll cry just the thing I dream
of.
Though
time and time are short, she doesn't know. She
doesn't know. I don't really know. No, she doesn't
know, I know.
These
made outside, though, the light's just a little
bit strong for her.
This one's good.
This one would have been good, but it's blurred
just a little bit. And these are both good, too.
Yeah.
Even if Melanie is in the shade. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
Come back with again.
Very, very good in much the same way that flowers
for Algernon is good. If you enjoyed the one, I
think you will enjoy the other.
Excellent. Virginia actually saved my
life. Thank you, Virginia. Tomorrow, please
don't let me forget tomorrow. I probably will. To
highlight some of these books, it's time for you to
go. And I know some of you have classes. But on this
last list that I gave you, don't let me forget to
emphasize certain of these. Tell you which ones to
check out first.